GITHUB LINK: https://github.com/obfdp/biswas.6.git

In this project we will be designing and implementing a memory management module for our Operating System

Simulator oss.
In particular, we will be implementing the FIFO (clock) page replacement algorithms. When a page-fault occurs,
it will be necessary to swap in that page. If there are no empty frames, your algorithm will select the victim frame
based on our FIFO replacement policy. This treats the frames as one large circular queue.
Each frame should also have an additional dirty bit, which is set on writing to the frame. This bit is necessary
to consider dirty bit optimization when determining how much time these operations take. The dirty bit will be
implemented as a part of the page table.
Operating System Simulator
This will be your main program and serve as the master process. You will start the operating system simulator (call
the executable oss) as one main process who will fork multiple children at random times. The randomness will be
simulated by a logical clock that will be updated by oss as well as user processes. Thus, the logical clock resides
in shared memory. You should have two unsigned integers for the clock; one will show the time in seconds and the
other will show the time in nanoseconds, offset from the beginning of a second.
In the beginning, oss will allocate shared memory for system data structures, including page table. You can create
fixed sized arrays for page tables, assuming that each process will have a requirement of less than 32K memory,
with each page being 1K. The page table should also have a delimiter indicating its size so that your programs do
not access memory beyond the page table limit. The page table should have all the required fields that may be
implemented by bits or character data types.
Assume that your system has a total memory of 256K. You will require a frame table, with any data required such
as reference byte and dirty bit.

User Processes
Each user process generates memory references to one of its locations. When a process needs to generate an address
to request, it simply generates a random value from 0 to the limit of the pages that process would have acces to (32).
Now you have the page of the request, but you need the offset still. Multiply that page number by 1024 and then
add a random offset of from 0 to 1023 to get the actual memory address requested. Note that we are only simulating
this and actually do not have anything to read or write.
Once this is done, you now have a memory address, but we still must determine if it is a read or write. Do this with
randomness, but bias it towards reads. This information (the address requested and whether it is a read or write)
should be conveyed to oss. The user process will wait on its semaphore (or message queue if implemented that
way) that will be signaled by oss. oss checks the page reference by extracting the page number from the address,
increments the clock as specified above, and sends a signal on the semaphore if the page is valid.
At random times, say every 1000 ± 100 memory references, the user process will check whether it should terminate.
If so, all its memory should be returned to oss and oss should be informed of its termination.
The statistics of interest are:
 Number of memory accesses per second
 Number of page faults per memory access
 Average memory access speed
You should terminate after more than 100 processes have gotten into your system, or if more than 2 real life seconds
have passed. Make sure that you have signal handling to terminate all processes, if needed. In case of abnormal
termination, make sure to remove shared memory, queues and semaphores.
I suggest you implement these requirements in the following order:
Memory Management 3
1. Get a makefile that compiles two source files, have master allocate shared memory, use it, then deallocate it.
Make sure to check all possible error returns.
2. Get Master to fork off and exec one child and have that child attach to shared memory and check the clock and
verify it has correct resource limit. Then test having child and master communicate through message queues.
Set up pcb and frame table/page tables
3. Have child request a read/write of a memory address (just using the first scheme) and have master always
grant it and log it.
4. Set up more than one process going through your system, still granting all requests.
5. Now start filling out your page table and frame table; if a frame is full, just empty it (indicating in the process
that you took it from that it is gone) and grant the request.
6. Implement a wait queue for I/O delay on needing to swap a process out.
7. Do not forget that swapping out a process with a dirty bit should take more time on your device
8. Implement the FIFO scheme

How to Run the Project 

To run, please type:

 1. ./oss


Implementation

The overall implementation is done but seeing segmentation fault errors sometimes. 
Running the program multiple times is resolving the issue. 
Tried to debug and find the root cause to fix it but due to shortage of time i couldn't resolve it. 
This is the toughest project I worked on due to the issues I faced during implementation. I will keep investigating to fix the issue.


